Incrementals blog(s), part 1 and 2 (#3053)
alcionai/corso: website/blog/2023-4-10-incrementals-pt1.md

have some knowledge of how delta queries work in the Microsoft Graph API and how
data is laid out in Corso backups.

### Microsoft delta queries

Microsoft provides a delta query API that allows developers to get only the
changes to the endpoint since the last query was made. The API represents the
idea of the “last query” with an opaque token that's returned when the set of
items is done being listed. For example, if a developer wants to get a delta
token for a specific email folder, the developer would first list all the items
in the folder using the delta endpoint. On the final page of item results from
the endpoint, the Graph API would return a token that could be used to retrieve
future updates.

All returned tokens represent a point in time and are independent from each
other. This means that getting token a1 at time t1, making some changes, and
then getting another token a2 at time t2 would give distinct tokens. Requesting
the changes from token a1 would always give the changes made after time t1
including those after time t2. Requesting changes from token a2 would give only
the changes made after time t2. Tokens eventually expire though, so waiting a

> long time between backups (e.x. weeks) may cause all items to be enumerated

Author: added a link

> long time between backups (e.x. weeks) may cause all items to be enumerated

Author: changed to 'for example' since, yes, Microsoft Linting hates 'e.g.'

again.

## Corso full backups, incremental backups, and backup layout

> Before we get into the nuts and bolts of how Corso uses the Microsoft delta

Author: Added an introduction of Kopia

query API, it’s important to first define what’s in a backup and the terminology
we’ll be using throughout this post.

### Backup layout

Internally, a single Corso backup consists of three main parts: a kopia manifest
that Corso uses as the root object of the backup (BackupModel), a kopia snapshot

> of indexing information for Corso, and a kopia snapshot of the item data in the

Reviewer: The name is is a bit awkward and especially for "kopia snapshot of ..." Maybe make it "backup index" and "the data backup"

backup. The BackupModel contains summary information about the status of the
backup (did it have errors, how many items did it backup, etc) and pointers to
the two snapshots that contain information.

The snapshot with indexing information contains the data output during a
`corso backup details` command and is used to filter the set of restored items
during restore commands. The snapshot contains one entry for every backed up
M365 item in the backup.

The snapshot of item data contains the raw bytes that Corso backed up from M365.
Internally, Corso uses a file hierarchy in kopia that closely mirrors the layout
of the data in M365. For example, if the user has a file in the OneDrive folder
`work/important` then Corso creates a kopia path
`<tenant ID>/onedrive/<user ID>/files/<drive ID>/root/work/important` for that
file.

> Corso also stores a few extra bits of metadata to help with incremental backups.

Reviewer: Where does it store this? Part of the index snap or data snap?

Reviewer 2: they're stored in the data snapshot

Author: updated with this info

Most importantly, it stores the Graph API’s delta tokens retrieved during the
backup process as well as a mapping relating the current M365 folder IDs to

> their paths. This information is stored with different path prefixes (ex. uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their paths. This information is stored with different path prefixes (e.g., uses
```

`onedriveMetadata` instead of `onedrive`) to make it straightforward to separate out from
backed up item data.

### Terminology

*Full backups* are backups where all of the data being backed up is fetched from
M365 with the Graph API. These backups may take a long time to complete (we’ve

> seen backups that run for 20+ hours) due to throttling imposed by Microsoft 365.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seen backups of accounts with extremely large amounts of data run for 20+ hours) due to throttling imposed by Microsoft 365.
```

item from a backup requires only accessing information contained in or
referenced directly by the backup passed in to the restore command. This makes
backups independent from each other once they’ve been created, so we’ll refer to
them as *independent backups* for the rest of this post.

Both independent backups and chained backups have the same information. Having
independent backups generally creates more complexity when making a new backup
while chained backups generally have more complexity during restore and backup
deletion. Independent backups have more complexity when creating the backup as
indexing information and item data references for deduplicated data may need to
be sourced from previous backups. Chained backups have more complex restore as
multiple backups may need to be searched for the item being restored. They also
have more complex backup deletion as an item’s data can only be deleted if no
backups in any chain refer to it. The figure below gives a high-level overview
of the differences between independent backups and chained backups.

![an image of an independent backup](./images/independent_backups.png)

> *both images below show how data would be stored if the user backed up two files on their first backup and then made a*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Both images below show how data would be stored if the user backed up two files on their first backup and then made a*
```
This should also go below the second image.

Author: added captions to both images

*new file and updated file1 before taking a second backup*
![an image of a chained backup](./images/chained_backups.png)

Although having a full listing of all items present at the time of the backup in
each backups sounds wasteful, Corso takes advantage of the data deduplication

> provided by kopia to only store one copy of the underlying data for backed up

Reviewer: Is data here bulk data or index data?

Reviewer 2: bulk data in the data snapshot

Author: added this clarification

items. What this really means is each Corso backup has a complete set of
*indexing information*. This gives Corso the best of both worlds; allowing
completed backups to have independent indexing information and life cycles from
each other while still minimizing the amount of item data stored.

> > 💡 In [part 2 of our series, we’ll cover Incremental backups in action](https://corsobackup.io/blog/incremental-backups-pt2/).

Reviewer: This should be longer but, in general, needs a better summary that describes what we covered in this blog post, what is coming next and a link to where to find it.

Author: expanded the conclusion

> > 💡 In [part 2 of our series, we’ll cover Incremental backups in action](https://corsobackup.io/blog/incremental-backups-pt2/).

Reviewer: Please use relative links internally.

Author: relative links are failing when I try to stage them. Will investigate further

Reviewer: Other blog posts should have examples.

---

## Try Corso Today

Corso implements compression, deduplication *and* incremental backups to give
you the best backup performance. Check

> [our quickstart guide](https://corsobackup.io/docs/quickstart/) to see how to get started.

Reviewer: Please use relative links internally.
